Reference guide on how to upgrade Gatsby and its dependencies for minor and patch releases (#17790)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/upgrade-gatsby-and-dependencies.md

## Upgrade Interactively

You can manually select which dependencies you want to update through the [npm-check](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-check) module. To do that, start by installing the module:

```shell
npm install npm-check --save-dev
```

Then add the corresponding script to your package.json file:

```json:title=package.json
{
  "scripts": {
    "upgrade-interactive": "npm-check --update"
  }
}
```

And finally run the recently added command:

```shell
npm run upgrade-interactive
```

## Troubleshooting

Aside from some specific cases, such as [Gatsby's dropping of support for Node 6](/blog/2019-06-18-dropping-support-for-node-6/), upgrading for minor or patch releases should not require you to make changes to your code. It is recommended to run your suite of tests (in case you have one) after upgrading Gatsby or its dependencies.

In case you get stuck in dependencies conflicts, you can use the [npm-force-resolutinos package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-force-resolutions?activeTab=readme) on npm.

## Related content

Check out these related guides for major upgrades of Gatsby:

> [Migrating from v0 to v1](/docs/migrating-from-v0-to-v1/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrating from v1 to v2](/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2/)
```
Making this into a list, and swapping the order to put the most recent upgrade doc first. At this point, nobody should be upgrading to v1.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not 100% certain, but I believe removing this line break will facilitate grouping the migrating doc links into one list.

> [Migrating from v1 to v2](/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrating from v0 to v1](/docs/migrating-from-v0-to-v1/)
```

---
title: Upgrade Gatsby for minor or patch releases
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We can skip this heading, and dive right into the content.

To keep up with the latest bug fixes, security patches and minor releases from both Gatsby and its dependencies, you should constantly upgrade to the latest version of each one.

In this guide you will learn how to upgrade Gatsby and its dependencies for minor or patch releases.

## Semantic versioning

As many other pacakages, Gatsby uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) to tag new versions and indicate what kind of changes are introduced in every new release.

> This guide is meant to teach you how to upgrade Gatsby for minor or patch releases. For major changes you can refer to our [Release and Migrations](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview for the corresponding guide to upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide is meant to teach you how to upgrade Gatsby for minor or patch releases. For major changes you can refer to our [Release and Migrations](/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview for the corresponding guide to upgrade.
```

> This guide is meant to teach you how to upgrade Gatsby for minor or patch releases. For major changes you can refer to our [Release and Migrations](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview for the corresponding guide to upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide is meant to teach you how to upgrade Gatsby for minor or patch releases. For major changes you can refer to the [Release and Migrations](/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview for the corresponding guide to upgrade.
```

Updating to align with the [Gatsby Style Guide on using "you" as the pronoun](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#use-you-as-the-pronoun) (I omit pronouns sometimes to make that easier to achieve). We also use relative URLs so they work when building the site locally.

## Why you should upgrade Gatsby and its dependencies

> Every new version of every package comes with improvements on multiple categories from performance, accesibility, to security and bug fixes, among others, so it is important to upgrade both Gatsby and its dependencies to get the latest improvements in every one of these categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every new version of every package comes with improvements on multiple categories from performance, accessibility, security, bug fixes, and more, so it is important to upgrade both Gatsby and its dependencies to get the latest improvements in every one of these categories.
```

> Constantly upgrading your dependencies on minor or patch releases also helps you to make major upgrades easier and to identify ossible soon to be deprecated functionality or APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constantly upgrading your dependencies on minor or patch releases also helps you to make major upgrades easier and to identify soon-to-be-deprecated functionality or APIs.
```

## How to identify possible upgrades

> Depending on your current setup, you can use one of [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) or [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm) to update your dependencies.

Reviewer: We recommend npm throughout the docs to keep things simple (with one exception being in the contributing docs for the Gatsby repo), so we should be consistent with that here and remove the Yarn instructions.

To start, you can run the outdated command to identify new releases for all your dependencies. Remember that you only have to use one of npm or yarn, not both of them.

```shell
npm outdated
```

```shell
yarn outdated
```

This will output a table indicating which packages have new versions available and what is the latest version for each one.

```
Package                            Current   Wanted   Latest  Location
gatsby                             2.15.13  2.15.13  2.15.20
```

## Configure your dependencies for upgrades

> Depending on whether you want to update Gatsby and its dependencies for minor or patch releases you need to modify your `package.json` accordingly. If you only want to update for patch releases, you can add a tilde before the version of your package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on whether you want to update Gatsby and its dependencies for minor or patch releases, you need to modify your `package.json` accordingly. 

If you only want to update for patch releases, you can add a tilde (`~`) before the version of your package:
```

```title=package.json
"dependencies"{
  "gatsby": "~2.15.13",
}
```

> For both patch and minor updates, add a caret before the version of your package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both patch and minor updates, add a caret (`^`) before the version of your package:
```

```title=package.json
"dependencies"{
  "gatsby": "^2.15.13",
}
```

> For major updates follow up with the corresponding guide from the [Release and Migrations](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For major updates follow up with the corresponding guide from the [Release and Migrations](/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview.
```

> In case that you are updating Gatsby, be sure to also update Gatsby related plugins, you can identify them because their name starts with `gatsby-`, this only applies to plugins managed in the gatsbyjs/gatsby repo, for community plugins check beforehand if there is a new version you can upgrade to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are updating Gatsby, you'll likely also need to update Gatsby-related plugins: you can identify them by their names starting with `gatsby-`. This only applies to plugins managed in the gatsbyjs/gatsby repo; for community plugins, check beforehand if there is a new version available for upgrading.
```

## Updating all your dependencies at once

> After adding the corresponding annotations into your `package.json` file, you can run the update command in npm or the upgrade command if you are using yarn, remember that you only have to use one of yarn or npm:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After adding the corresponding annotations into your `package.json` file, you can run the `update` command in npm or the `upgrade` command if you are using yarn, remember that you only have to use one of yarn or npm:
```

> After adding the corresponding annotations into your `package.json` file, you can run the update command in npm or the upgrade command if you are using yarn, remember that you only have to use one of yarn or npm:

Reviewer: Same as above -- we should limit to npm instructions.

```shell
npm update
```

```shell
yarn upgrade
```

> This will upgrade all your packages to the latest [wanted](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/outdated) version, this means the latest patch in case that you specified that only patch updates were allowed, and so on for minor and major update annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will upgrade all your packages to the latest [wanted version](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/outdated): such as the latest patch, minor, or major update depending on your annotations in `package.json`.
```

## Upgrade individual dependencies

> You can also update one package at the time with the install command in npm, or the add command in yarn, alongside the version that you want to install:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also update one package at the time with the `install` command in npm, or the `add` command in yarn, alongside the version that you want to install:
```

> You can also update one package at the time with the install command in npm, or the add command in yarn, alongside the version that you want to install:

Reviewer: Same as above for npm.

```shell
npm install <package-name>@<version> --save
```

```shell
yarn add <package-name>@<version>
```

You can specify the version you want to install or upgrade to, in the following formats:

> - An specific version after the @

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An specific version after the `@`
```

> - An specific version after the @

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A specific version after the `@`
```

> - An annotated version with \*,^,~ to indicate that you want the latest major, minor or patch release respectively.

Reviewer 2: No escape char is needed anymore for `*` in backticks

```suggestion
- An annotated version with `*`,`^`,`~` to indicate that you want the latest major, minor or patch release respectively.
```

> - Use and x instead of a number to indicate that you want the latest mayor (x), minor (&lt;major&gt;.x) or patch release (&lt;major&gt;.&lt;minor&gt;.x).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use an `x` instead of a number to indicate that you want the latest mayor (`x`), minor (`<major>.x`) or patch release (`<major>.<minor>.x`).
```

> - Use and x instead of a number to indicate that you want the latest mayor (x), minor (&lt;major&gt;.x) or patch release (&lt;major&gt;.&lt;minor&gt;.x).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use an `x` instead of a number to indicate that you want the latest major (`x`), minor (`<major>.x`) or patch release (`<major>.<minor>.x`). For example, to install the latest patch release for a given major and minor version: `npm install package-name@2.1.x --save`
```

> Remember to follow up with the corresponding guide from the [Release and Migrations](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview, for major upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For major upgrades, remember to follow up with the corresponding guide from the [Release and Migrations](/docs/releases-and-migration/) reference guide overview.
```
This suggestion puts the important part of the sentence first, and uses a relative URL.

## Upgrade Interactively

> If you are using yarn you can also use the upgrade-interactive command to manually select which dependencies you want to update:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using yarn you can also use the `upgrade-interactive` command to manually select which dependencies you want to update:
```

> If you are using yarn you can also use the upgrade-interactive command to manually select which dependencies you want to update:

Reviewer: Same as above with npm.

```shell
yarn upgrade-interactive
```

The same behavior can be accomplished in npm through the [npm-check](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-check) module. To do that, start by installing the module:

```shell
npm install npm-check --save-dev
```

Then add the corresponding script to your package.json file:

> ```title=package.json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json:title=package.json
```

{
  "scripts": {
    "upgrade-interactive": "npm-check --update"
  }
}
```

And finally run the recently added command:

```shell
npm run upgrade-interactive
```

## Troubleshooting

> Aside from some [specific cases](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-06-18-dropping-support-for-node-6/), upgrading for minor or patch releases should not require you to make changes to your code, but it is recommended to run your suite of tests in case you have one after upgrading Gatsby or its dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Aside from some [specific cases](/blog/2019-06-18-dropping-support-for-node-6/), upgrading for minor or patch releases should not require you to make changes to your code, but it is recommended to run your suite of tests in case you have one after upgrading Gatsby or its dependencies.
```

> Aside from some [specific cases](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-06-18-dropping-support-for-node-6/), upgrading for minor or patch releases should not require you to make changes to your code, but it is recommended to run your suite of tests in case you have one after upgrading Gatsby or its dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside from some specific cases, such as [Gatsby's dropping of support for Node 6](/blog/2019-06-18-dropping-support-for-node-6/), upgrading for minor or patch releases should not require you to make changes to your code. It is recommended to run your suite of tests (in case you have one) after upgrading Gatsby or its dependencies.
```

In case you get stuck in dependencies conflicts, you can use [selective dependency resolutions](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/) with yarn, or the [npm-force-resolutinos package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-force-resolutions?activeTab=readme) for the same behavior on npm.

## Related content

Check out these related guides for major upgrades of Gatsby:

> [Migrating from v0 to v1](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/migrating-from-v0-to-v1/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Migrating from v0 to v1](/docs/migrating-from-v0-to-v1/)
```

> [Migrating from v1 to v2](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Migrating from v1 to v2](/docs/migrating-from-v1-to-v2/)
```
